1. Using proper pseudo-code, describe the following primitive algorithms:

- Making coffee;

1. Take the grinder out of the top of the coffee pot (this is for a Grind and Brew Coffee pot!).
2. Place coffee beans in the grinder until the beans cover the blades
3. Put the grinder back into the coffee pot.
4. Place one coffee filter in the filter basket.
5. Fill the coffee pot with 4 cups of water in the top water container.
6. When you are ready for your coffee, press the "on" button.
7. Wait for coffee to finish brewing.
8. When machine beeps, pour yourself some coffee and enjoy!


- Washing dishes;

1. Separate dishes by type of dish (plates, bowls, cups, utensils, etc.)
2. WHILE there are unclean dishes
  3. Rinse and scrub off stuck on food particles form item.
    4. IF item is dishwasher safe
      Place item in the dishwasher.
    ELSE wash item by hand and place in the drying rack.
    END IF
5. ENDWHILE
6. Dry items in the drying rack with a clean towel and put away.
7. IF the dishwasher is full
    FILL the dishwasher with detergent and run cleaning cycle.
  ELSE you are finished!
  END IF

- A choice of your own:   Making BBQ Chicken Wings on the grill;

1. Spray grill grates with non-stick grilling spray.
2. Place 2 tablespoons of cooking oil on 2 dozen chicken wings (I recommend buying the chicken wings that are already separated).
  3. Rub oil on chicken wings to even distribute.
  4. IF wings are not fully covered add 1 more Tablespoon of cooking oil.
  ELSE move on to next step.
5. Turn on grill and preheat to 350 degrees Fahrenheit.
6. Place wings on the grill.  Do not overlap the wings.
7. SET timer for 9 minutes.
8. While the wings are cooking, place 1 - 2 cups of BBQ sauce in a large bowl with a lid.
9. When timer goes off, turn the wings over and cook for 9 more minutes.
10. After timer goes off again, place wings in the bowl of BBQ sauce,
secure lid and shake to even distribute BBQ sauce.
11. Let wings sit covered for 5 minutes.
12. Enjoy the wings.  You'll probably need some extra napkins.



2. As with the knot algorithm, there may be more than one way to solve the problem.
It is essential to try to pick the best algorithm for a situation. Name three companies
who created an algorithm that made them successful, e.g., Google's search algorithm.
It doesn't need to be a tech example (such as a recipe or manufacturing a product).
Google's algorithm produces more relevant results than other search engines; what about
each of your cases make them stand out?

1. Facebook: Facebook social networking algorithms have made them extremely popular.
The way people are able to connect with others and customize what they see has made
Facebook a favorite among many people.

2. Alabama NCAA Football team: the Alabama football team has consistently been one of the top
college football teams for the past 10 years.  It has won 5 national championships in that time.
Their algorithm or formula for constructing a team has been very effective.  They focus on having
the biggest, strongest and fastest players on the offensive and defensive line which helps them
control the pace of the game.  It allows their skill players on offense score more easily.  It
allows their defense to stop the other team more effectively.  This algorithm has translated into
many wins.

3. Vanguard:  Vanguard is a popular financial institution.  Their algorithm/approach to investing
has set them apart from other investment firms.  Instead of having financial advisors trying to
pick which individual stocks/bonds will give excellent returns in the market, their approach is
to invest in index funds that own large portions of the market (like the S&P 500).  These index funds
are able to match the market's return.  Their philosophy is that very few financial advisors are able
to actively beat the return of the S&P 500 over an extended period of time (10, 20, 30 years).
So instead of paying high fees to actively manage accounts, they lower their fees more than the competition,
and tend to get better returns for their clients by matching the returns of the market.



3. Hypothesize about what constitutes an efficient algorithm versus an inefficient algorithm.

An efficient algorithm is an algorithm that executes its purpose in the fastest way possible.
Algorithm efficiency is measured by the average execution time necessary for the algorithm to complete
the complete work on a set of data. An example is I can get to my neighbor's house two ways.
First, I can get to their house by walking directly from my house to their house.  Second, I can go
the other direction, walk all the way around the block, and then arrive at their house.
Both ways will get me to their house, but the first way is much more efficient. It is better to use
the most efficient algorithm because as a project grows, it becomes easier to scale when you are using
the most efficient algorithms.  If you are only dealing with 100 data points, it might not be a big
deal to have a less efficient algorithm, but if you are dealing with 1,000 or 100,000 or 1,000,000
data points the inefficiency will grow exponentially causing more problems.
